# Fischer Random Chess
## Introduction
Fischer Random Chess is a variant of Chess. To know more about Fisher Random Chess, please visit the [Chess960](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chess960) wiki page.
This repo is used to create a LaTeX document that shows how there are 960 unique starting combinations for Fischer Random Chess. We also enumrate these 960 unique combinations.

## Contents of Repo
The following are important files:
+ [`simple-gen-fisher-random-placements.rb`](./ruby/simple-gen-fisher-random-placements.rb)
  : This is a script that generates all the unique starting placements in a tabular form with N number of placements per row. There is also pagination after every M rows.
+ [`gen-fisher-random-placements.rb`](./ruby/gen-fisher-random-placements.rb)
  : This is a script that generates all the unique starting placements in LaTeX tabular form that is suitable for insertion into [`fischer-random-chess.tex.template`](./tex/fischer-random-chess.tex.template) between `BEGIN: pasting` and [END: pasting] and generates the file [`fischer-random-chess.tex`](./tex/fischer-random-chess.tex)
+ [`fischer-random-chess.tex`](./tex/fischer-random-chess.tex)
  : This is the file that is to be composed using PDFLaTeX after it has been created using [`gen-fisher-random-placements.rb`](./ruby/gen-fisher-random-placements.rb) and [`fischer-random-chess.tex.template`](./tex/fischer-random-chess.tex.template)
+ [`Makefile`](./tex/Makefile)
  : This is the makefile that is used to compose [`fischer-random-chess.tex`](./tex/fischer-random-chess.tex) to create [`fischer-random-chess.pdf`](./tex/fischer-random-chess.pdf)
+ [`fischer-random-chess.pdf`](./tex/fischer-random-chess.pdf)
  : This is the file that is generated by composing [`fischer-random-chess.tex`](./tex/fischer-random-chess.tex) using PDFLaTeX


## PDF Document Generation
The main document is a PDF document (`fischer-random-chess.pdf`) and is [here](./tex/fischer-random-chess.pdf).

To generate the PDF ([`fischer-random-chess.pdf`](./tex/fischer-random-chess.pdf)) run the following command(s):
```
make cleanall # To clean up auxiliary files and the generated PDF
make clean    # To clean up auxiliary files
make          # To compile the LaTeX file and generate the PDF
```

`Makefile` Explanation:  
+ `TARGET`
  : The base name of your LaTeX file (without the .tex extension).
+ `all`
  : The default rule that depends on the PDF file.
+ `$(TARGET).pdf`
  : The rule to generate the PDF from the LaTeX file. It runs pdflatex twice to ensure that references and table of contents are updated correctly.
+ `clean`
  : A rule to remove auxiliary files generated by pdflatex.
+ `cleanall`
  : A rule to remove auxiliary files and the generated PDF.
+ `.PHONY`
  : Declares all, clean, and cleanall as phony targets, meaning they are not actual files.
